1 After six days Jesus took Peter, James, and his brother John, and led them up on a high mountain by themselves. &times; References for Matthew 17:1
2 He was transformeda in front of them, and His face shone like the sun. Even His clothes became as white as the light. &times; References for Matthew 17:2
3 Suddenly, Moses and Elijah appeared to them, talking with Him.
4 Then Peter said to Jesus, "Lord, it's good for us to be here! If You want, I will makeb three tabernacles here: one for You, one for Moses, and one for Elijah." &times; References for Matthew 17:4
5 While he was still speaking, suddenly a bright cloud coveredc them, and a voice from the cloudd said: This is My beloved Son. I take delight in Him. Listen to Him! &times; References for Matthew 17:5
6 When the disciples heard it, they fell facedown and were terrified.
7 Then Jesus came up, touched them, and said, "Get up; don't be afraid."
8 When they looked up they saw no one except Hime-Jesus alone. &times; References for Matthew 17:8
9 As they were coming down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, "Don't tell anyone about the vision until the Son of Man is raised f from the dead." &times; References for Matthew 17:9
10 So the disciples questioned Him, "Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?"
11 "Elijah is coming g and will restore everything," He replied.h &times; References for Matthew 17:11
12 "But I tell you: Elijah has already come, and they didn't recognize him. On the contrary, they did whatever they pleased to him. In the same way the Son of Man is going to suffer at their hands." i &times; References for Matthew 17:12
13 Then the disciples understood that He spoke to them about John the Baptist.
14 When they reached the crowd, a man approached and knelt down before Him. &times; References for Matthew 17:14
15 "Lord," he said, "have mercy on my son, because he has seizuresj and suffers severely. He often falls into the fire and often into the water. &times; References for Matthew 17:15
16 I brought him to Your disciples, but they couldn't heal him."
17 Jesus replied, "You unbelieving and rebellious k generation! How long will I be with you? How long must I put up with you? Bring him here to Me." &times; References for Matthew 17:17
18 Then Jesus rebuked the demon,l and itm came out of him, and from that momentn the boy was healed. &times; References for Matthew 17:18
19 Then the disciples approached Jesus privately and said, "Why couldn't we drive it out?"
20 "Because of your little faith," Heo told them. "For I assure you: If you have faith the size of p a mustard seed, you will tell this mountain, 'Move from here to there,' and it will move. Nothing will be impossible for you. [ &times; References for Matthew 17:20
21 However, this kind does not come out except by prayer and fasting.]" q &times; References for Matthew 17:21
22 As they were meetingr in Galilee, Jesus told them, "The Son of Man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men. &times; References for Matthew 17:22
23 They will kill Him, and on the third day He will be raised up." And they were deeply distressed.
24 When they came to Capernaum, those who collected the double-drachma taxs approached Peter and said, "Doesn't your Teacher pay the double-drachma tax?" &times; References for Matthew 17:24
25 "Yes," he said. When he went into the house, Jesus spoke to him first,t "What do you think, Simon? Who do earthly kings collect tariffs or taxes from? From their sons or from strangers?" u &times; References for Matthew 17:25
26 "From strangers," he said.v "Then the sons are free," Jesus told him. &times; References for Matthew 17:26
27 "But, so we won't offend them, go to the sea, cast in a fishhook, and catch the first fish that comes up. When you open its mouth you'll find a coin. w Take it and give it to them for Me and you." &times; References for Matthew 17:27
