1 At that timea the disciples came to Jesus and said, "Who is greatest in the kingdom of heaven?" &times; References for Matthew 18:1
2 Then He called a child to Him and had him stand among them.
3 "I assure you," He said, "unless you are converted b and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. &times; References for Matthew 18:3
4 Therefore, whoever humbles himself like this child-this one is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.
5 And whoever welcomes c one child like this in My name welcomes Me. &times; References for Matthew 18:5
6 "But whoever causes the downfall of one of these little ones who believe in Me-it would be better for him if a heavy millstone d were hung around his neck and he were drowned in the depths of the sea! &times; References for Matthew 18:6
7 Woe to the world because of offenses. e For offenses must come, but woe to that man by whom the offense comes. &times; References for Matthew 18:7
8 If your hand or your foot causes your downfall, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life maimed or lame, than to have two hands or two feet and be thrown into the eternal fire.
9 And if your eye causes your downfall, gouge it out and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life with one eye, rather than to have two eyes and be thrown into hellfire! f &times; References for Matthew 18:9
10 "See that you don't look down on one of these little ones, because I tell you that in heaven their angels continually view the face of My Father in heaven. [ &times; References for Matthew 18:10
11 For the Son of Man has come to save the lost.] g &times; References for Matthew 18:11
12 What do you think? If a man has 100 sheep, and one of them goes astray, won't he leave the 99 on the hillside and go and search for the stray?
13 And if he finds it, I assure you: He rejoices over that sheep h more than over the 99 that did not go astray. &times; References for Matthew 18:13
14 In the same way, it is not the will of your Father in heaven that one of these little ones perish.
15 "If your brother sins against you, i go and rebuke him in private. j If he listens to you, you have won your brother. &times; References for Matthew 18:15
16 But if he won't listen, take one or two more with you, so that by the testimony k of two or three witnesses every fact may be established. l &times; References for Matthew 18:16
17 If he pays no attention to them, tell the church. m But if he doesn't pay attention even to the church, let him be like an unbeliever n and a tax collector to you. &times; References for Matthew 18:17
18 I assure you: Whatever you bind on earth is already bound o in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth is already loosed p in heaven. &times; References for Matthew 18:18
19 Again, I assure you: If two of you on earth agree about any matter that you q pray for, it will be done for you r by My Father in heaven. &times; References for Matthew 18:19
20 For where two or three are gathered together in My name, I am there among them."
21 Then Peter came to Him and said, "Lord, how many times could my brother sin against me and I forgive him? As many as seven times?" &times; References for Matthew 18:21
22 "I tell you, not as many as seven," Jesus said to him, "but 70 times seven. s &times; References for Matthew 18:22
23 For this reason, the kingdom of heaven can be compared to a king who wanted to settle accounts with his slaves.
24 When he began to settle accounts, one who owed 10,000 talents t was brought before him. &times; References for Matthew 18:24
25 Since he had no way to pay it back, his master commanded that he, his wife, his children, and everything he had be sold to pay the debt.
26 "At this, the slave fell facedown before him and said, 'Be patient with me, and I will pay you everything!'
27 Then the master of that slave had compassion, released him, and forgave him the loan.
28 "But that slave went out and found one of his fellow slaves who owed him 100 denarii. u He grabbed him, started choking him, and said, 'Pay what you owe!' &times; References for Matthew 18:28
29 "At this, his fellow slave fell down v and began begging him, 'Be patient with me, and I will pay you back.' &times; References for Matthew 18:29
30 But he wasn't willing. On the contrary, he went and threw him into prison until he could pay what was owed.
31 When the other slaves saw what had taken place, they were deeply distressed and went and reported to their master everything that had happened.
32 "Then, after he had summoned him, his master said to him, 'You wicked slave! I forgave you all that debt because you begged me.
33 Shouldn't you also have had mercy on your fellow slave, as I had mercy on you?'
34 And his master got angry and handed him over to the jailers w until he could pay everything that was owed. &times; References for Matthew 18:34
35 So My heavenly Father will also do to you if each of you does not forgive his brother x from his y heart." &times; References for Matthew 18:35
