1 When Jesus had finished this instruction, He departed from Galilee and went to the region of Judea across the Jordan. &times; References for Matthew 19:1
2 Large crowds followed Him, and He healed them there.
3 Some Pharisees approached Him to test Him. They asked, "Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife on any grounds?"
4 "Haven't you read," He replied, "that He who created a them in the beginning made them male and female , b &times; References for Matthew 19:4
5 and He also said: For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two will become one flesh ? c &times; References for Matthew 19:5
6 So they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore what God has joined together, man must not separate."
7 "Why then," they asked Him, "did Moses command [us] to give divorce papers and to send her away?"
8 He told them, "Moses permitted you to divorce your wives because of the hardness of your hearts. But it was not like that from the beginning.
9 And I tell you, whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another, commits adultery." d &times; References for Matthew 19:9
10 His disciples said to Him, "If the relationship of a man with his wife is like this, it's better not to marry!"
11 But He told them, "Not everyone can accept this saying, but only those it has been given to.
12 For there are eunuchs who were born that way from their mother's womb, there are eunuchs who were made by men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves that way because of the kingdom of heaven. Let anyone accept this who can."
13 Then children were brought to Him so He might put His hands on them and pray. But the disciples rebuked them. &times; References for Matthew 19:13
14 Then Jesus said, "Leave the children alone, and don't try to keep them from coming to Me, because the kingdom of heaven is made up of people like this." e &times; References for Matthew 19:14
15 After putting His hands on them, He went on from there.
16 Just then someone came up and asked Him, "Teacher, what good must I do to have eternal life?" &times; References for Matthew 19:16
17 "Why do you ask Me about what is good?" f He said to him. "There is only One who is good. g If you want to enter into life, keep the commandments." &times; References for Matthew 19:17
18 "Which ones?" he asked Him. Jesus answered, Do not murder; do not commit adultery; do not steal; do not bear false witness;
19 honor your father and your mother; and love your neighbor as yourself. h &times; References for Matthew 19:19
20 "I have kept all these,"i the young man told Him. "What do I still lack?" &times; References for Matthew 19:20
21 "If you want to be perfect," j Jesus said to him, "go, sell your belongings and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. Then come, follow Me." &times; References for Matthew 19:21
22 When the young man heard that command, he went away grieving, because he had many possessions.
23 Then Jesus said to His disciples, "I assure you: It will be hard for a rich person to enter the kingdom of heaven! &times; References for Matthew 19:23
24 Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God."
25 When the disciples heard this, they were utterly astonished and asked, "Then who can be saved?"
26 But Jesus looked at them and said, "With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible."
27 Then Peter responded to Him, "Look, we have left everything and followed You. So what will there be for us?"
28 Jesus said to them, "I assure you: In the Messianic Age, k when the Son of Man sits on His glorious throne, you who have followed Me will also sit on 12 thrones, judging the 12 tribes of Israel. &times; References for Matthew 19:28
29 And everyone who has left houses, brothers or sisters, father or mother, l children, or fields because of My name will receive 100 times more and will inherit eternal life. &times; References for Matthew 19:29
30 But many who are first will be last, and the last first.
