1 Then Jesus spoke to the crowds and to His disciples: &times; References for Matthew 23:1
2 "The scribes and the Pharisees are seated in the chair of Moses. a &times; References for Matthew 23:2
3 Therefore do whatever they tell you and observe [it]. But don't do what they do, b because they don't practice what they teach. &times; References for Matthew 23:3
4 They tie up heavy loads that are hard to carry c and put them on people's shoulders, but they themselves aren't willing to lift a finger d to move them. &times; References for Matthew 23:4
5 They do everything e to be observed by others: They enlarge their phylacteries f and lengthen their tassels. g &times; References for Matthew 23:5
6 They love the place of honor at banquets, the front seats in the synagogues,
7 greetings in the marketplaces, and to be called 'Rabbi' by people.
8 "But as for you, do not be called 'Rabbi,' because you have one Teacher, h and you are all brothers. &times; References for Matthew 23:8
9 Do not call anyone on earth your father, because you have one Father, who is in heaven.
10 And do not be called masters either, because you have one Master, i the Messiah. &times; References for Matthew 23:10
11 The greatest among you will be your servant.
12 Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
13 "But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You lock up the kingdom of heaven from people. For you don't go in, and you don't allow those entering to go in. [
14 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You devour widows' houses and make long prayers just for show. j This is why you will receive a harsher punishment.] k &times; References for Matthew 23:14
15 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You travel over land and sea to make one proselyte, and when he becomes one, you make him twice as fit for hell l as you are! &times; References for Matthew 23:15
16 "Woe to you, blind guides, who say, 'Whoever takes an oath by the sanctuary, it means nothing. But whoever takes an oath by the gold of the sanctuary is bound by his oath.' m &times; References for Matthew 23:16
17 Blind fools! n For which is greater, the gold or the sanctuary that sanctified the gold? &times; References for Matthew 23:17
18 Also, 'Whoever takes an oath by the altar, it means nothing. But whoever takes an oath by the gift that is on it is bound by his oath.' o &times; References for Matthew 23:18
19 Blind people! p For which is greater, the gift or the altar that sanctifies the gift? &times; References for Matthew 23:19
20 Therefore the one who takes an oath by the altar takes an oath by it and by everything on it.
21 The one who takes an oath by the sanctuary takes an oath by it and by Him who dwells in it.
22 And the one who takes an oath by heaven takes an oath by God's throne and by Him who sits on it.
23 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You pay a tenth of q mint, dill, and cumin, r yet you have neglected the more important matters of the law-justice, mercy, and faith. These things should have been done without neglecting the others. &times; References for Matthew 23:23
24 Blind guides! You strain out a gnat, yet gulp down a camel!
25 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You clean the outside of the cup and dish, but inside they are full of greed s and self-indulgence! &times; References for Matthew 23:25
26 Blind Pharisee! First clean the inside of the cup, t so the outside of it u may also become clean. &times; References for Matthew 23:26
27 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You are like whitewashed tombs, which appear beautiful on the outside, but inside are full of dead men's bones and every impurity.
28 In the same way, on the outside you seem righteous to people, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness.
29 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You build the tombs of the prophets and decorate the monuments of the righteous,
30 and you say, 'If we had lived in the days of our fathers, we wouldn't have taken part with them in shedding the prophets' blood.' v &times; References for Matthew 23:30
31 You therefore testify against yourselves that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets.
32 Fill up, then, the measure of your fathers' sins! w &times; References for Matthew 23:32
33 "Snakes! Brood of vipers! How can you escape being condemned to hell? x &times; References for Matthew 23:33
34 This is why I am sending you prophets, sages, and scribes. Some of them you will kill and crucify, and some of them you will flog in your synagogues and hound from town to town.
35 So all the righteous blood shed on the earth will be charged to you, y from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, son of Berechiah, whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar. &times; References for Matthew 23:35
36 I assure you: All these things will come on this generation!
37 "Jerusalem, Jerusalem! The city who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her. How often I wanted to gather your children together, as a hen gathers her chicks z under her wings, yet you were not willing! &times; References for Matthew 23:37
38 See, your house is left to you desolate.
39 For I tell you, you will never see Me again until you say, Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord! " { &times; References for Matthew 23:39
