1 Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the Devil. &times; References for Matthew 4:1
2 After He had fasted 40 days and 40 nights, He was hungry.
3 Then the tempter approached Him and said, "If You are the Son of God, tell these stones to become bread."
4 But He answered, "It is written: Man must not live on bread alone but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. " a &times; References for Matthew 4:4
5 Then the Devil took Him to the holy city,b had Him stand on the pinnacle of the temple, &times; References for Matthew 4:5
6 and said to Him, "If You are the Son of God, throw Yourself down. For it is written: He will give His angels orders concerning you , and, they will support you with their hands so that you will not strike your foot against a stone. "c &times; References for Matthew 4:6
7 Jesus told him, "It is also written: Do not test the Lord your God. " d &times; References for Matthew 4:7
8 Again, the Devil took Him to a very high mountain and showed Him all the kingdoms of the world and their splendor.
9 And he said to Him, "I will give You all these things if You will fall down and worship me."e &times; References for Matthew 4:9
10 Then Jesus told him, "Go away, f Satan! For it is written: Worship the Lord your God, and serve only Him. " g &times; References for Matthew 4:10
11 Then the Devil left Him, and immediately angels came and began to serve Him.
12 When He heard that John had been arrested, He withdrew into Galilee. &times; References for Matthew 4:12
13 He left Nazareth behind and went to live in Capernaum by the sea, in the region of Zebulun and Naphtali.
14 This was to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet Isaiah:
15 Land of Zebulun and land of Naphtali, along the sea road, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles!
16 The people who live in darkness have seen a great light, and for those living in the shadowland of death, light has dawned. h i &times; References for Matthew 4:16
17 From then on Jesus began to preach, "Repent, because the kingdom of heaven has come near!"
18 As He was walking along the Sea of Galilee, He saw two brothers, Simon, who was called Peter, and his brother Andrew. They were casting a net into the sea, since they were fishermen. &times; References for Matthew 4:18
19 "Follow Me," He told them, "and I will make you fish for j people!" &times; References for Matthew 4:19
20 Immediately they left their nets and followed Him.
21 Going on from there, He saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and his brother John. They were in a boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and He called them.
22 Immediately they left the boat and their father and followed Him.
23 Jesus was going all over Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the good news of the kingdom, and healing everyk disease and sickness among the people. &times; References for Matthew 4:23
24 Then the news about Him spread throughout Syria. So they brought to Him all those who were afflicted, those suffering from various diseases and intense pains, the demon-possessed, the epileptics, and the paralytics. And He healed them.
25 Large crowds followed Him from Galilee, Decapolis, Jerusalem, Judea, and beyond the Jordan.
