1 This is the list of the ancestors of Jesus Christ, a descendant of David, who was a descendant of Abraham.
2 a From Abraham to King David, the following ancestors are listed: Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Judah and his brothers; then Perez and Zerah (their mother was Tamar), Hezron, Ram, Amminadab, Nahshon, Salmon, Boaz (his mother was Rahab), Obed (his mother was Ruth), Jesse, and King David.
6 b-11 From David to the time when the people of Israel were taken into exile in Babylon, the following ancestors are listed: David, Solomon (his mother was the woman who had been Uriah's wife), Rehoboam, Abijah, Asa, Jehoshaphat, Jehoram, Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, Hezekiah, Manasseh, Amon, Josiah, and Jehoiachin and his brothers. 1 &times; References for Matthew 1:6
12 From the time after the exile in Babylon to the birth of Jesus, the following ancestors are listed: Jehoiachin, Shealtiel, Zerubbabel, Abiud, Eliakim, Azor, Zadok, Achim, Eliud, Eleazar, Matthan, Jacob, and Joseph, who married Mary, the mother of Jesus, who was called the Messiah.
17 So then, there were fourteen generations from Abraham to David, and fourteen from David to the exile in Babylon, and fourteen from then to the birth of the Messiah.
18 This was how the birth of Jesus Christ took place. His mother Mary was engaged to Joseph, but before they were married, she found out that she was going to have a baby by the Holy Spirit. 2 &times; References for Matthew 1:18
19 Joseph was a man who always did what was right, but he did not want to disgrace Mary publicly; so he made plans to break the engagement privately.
20 While he was thinking about this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, "Joseph, descendant of David, do not be afraid to take Mary to be your wife. For it is by the Holy Spirit that she has conceived.
21 She will have a son, and you will name him Jesus - because he will save his people from their sins." 3 &times; References for Matthew 1:21
22 Now all this happened in order to make come true what the Lord had said through the prophet,
23 "A virgin will become pregnant and have a son, and he will be called Immanuel" (which means, "God is with us"). 4 &times; References for Matthew 1:23
24 So when Joseph woke up, he married Mary, as the angel of the Lord had told him to.
25 But he had no sexual relations with her before she gave birth to her son. And Joseph named him Jesus. 5 &times; References for Matthew 1:25
