1 After Jesus had finished instructing his twelve disciples, he went on from there to teach and preach in the towns of Galilee.a &times; References for Matthew 11:1
2 When John, who was in prison, heard about the deeds of the Messiah, he sent his disciples &times; References for Matthew 11:2
3 to ask him, “Are you the one who is to come, or should we expect someone else?” &times; References for Matthew 11:3
4 Jesus replied, “Go back and report to John what you hear and see:
5 The blind receive sight, the lame walk, those who have leprosybare cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the good news is proclaimed to the poor. &times; References for Matthew 11:5
6 Blessed is anyone who does not stumble on account of me.” &times; References for Matthew 11:6
7 As John’s disciples were leaving, Jesus began to speak to the crowd about John: “What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed swayed by the wind? &times; References for Matthew 11:7
8 If not, what did you go out to see? A man dressed in fine clothes? No, those who wear fine clothes are in kings’ palaces.
9 Then what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet. &times; References for Matthew 11:9
10 This is the one about whom it is written: “ ‘I will send my messenger ahead of you, who will prepare your way before you.’c &times; References for Matthew 11:10
11 Truly I tell you, among those born of women there has not risen anyone greater than John the Baptist; yet whoever is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he.
12 From the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven has been subjected to violence,dand violent people have been raiding it. &times; References for Matthew 11:12
13 For all the Prophets and the Law prophesied until John. &times; References for Matthew 11:13
14 And if you are willing to accept it, he is the Elijah who was to come. &times; References for Matthew 11:14
15 Whoever has ears, let them hear. &times; References for Matthew 11:15
16 “To what can I compare this generation? They are like children sitting in the marketplaces and calling out to others:
17 “ ‘We played the pipe for you, and you did not dance; we sang a dirge, and you did not mourn.’
18 For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, ‘He has a demon.’ &times; References for Matthew 11:18
19 The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, ‘Here is a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners.’ But wisdom is proved right by her deeds.” &times; References for Matthew 11:19
20 Then Jesus began to denounce the towns in which most of his miracles had been performed, because they did not repent. &times; References for Matthew 11:20
21 “Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the miracles that were performed in you had been performed in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. &times; References for Matthew 11:21
22 But I tell you, it will be more bearable for Tyre and Sidon on the day of judgment than for you. &times; References for Matthew 11:22
23 And you, Capernaum, will you be lifted to the heavens? No, you will go down to Hades.eFor if the miracles that were performed in you had been performed in Sodom, it would have remained to this day. &times; References for Matthew 11:23
24 But I tell you that it will be more bearable for Sodom on the day of judgment than for you.” &times; References for Matthew 11:24
25 At that time Jesus said, “I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and learned, and revealed them to little children. &times; References for Matthew 11:25
26 Yes, Father, for this is what you were pleased to do.
27 “All things have been committed to me by my Father. No one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son and those to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. &times; References for Matthew 11:27
28 “Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. &times; References for Matthew 11:28
29 Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. &times; References for Matthew 11:29
30 For my yoke is easy and my burden is light.” &times; References for Matthew 11:30
