1 The Pharisees and Sadducees came to Jesus and tested him by asking him to show them a sign from heaven. &times; References for Matthew 16:1
2 He replied, “When evening comes, you say, ‘It will be fair weather, for the sky is red,’
3 and in the morning, ‘Today it will be stormy, for the sky is red and overcast.’ You know how to interpret the appearance of the sky, but you cannot interpret the signs of the times.a &times; References for Matthew 16:3
4 A wicked and adulterous generation looks for a sign, but none will be given it except the sign of Jonah.” Jesus then left them and went away. &times; References for Matthew 16:4
5 When they went across the lake, the disciples forgot to take bread. &times; References for Matthew 16:5
6 “Be careful,” Jesus said to them. “Be on your guard against the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees.” &times; References for Matthew 16:6
7 They discussed this among themselves and said, “It is because we didn’t bring any bread.”
8 Aware of their discussion, Jesus asked, “You of little faith, why are you talking among yourselves about having no bread? &times; References for Matthew 16:8
9 Do you still not understand? Don’t you remember the five loaves for the five thousand, and how many basketfuls you gathered? &times; References for Matthew 16:9
10 Or the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how many basketfuls you gathered? &times; References for Matthew 16:10
11 How is it you don’t understand that I was not talking to you about bread? But be on your guard against the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees.”
12 Then they understood that he was not telling them to guard against the yeast used in bread, but against the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees. &times; References for Matthew 16:12
13 When Jesus came to the region of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, “Who do people say the Son of Man is?” &times; References for Matthew 16:13
14 They replied, “Some say John the Baptist; others say Elijah; and still others, Jeremiah or one of the prophets.” &times; References for Matthew 16:14
15 “But what about you?” he asked. “Who do you say I am?”
16 Simon Peter answered, “You are the Messiah, the Son of the living God.” &times; References for Matthew 16:16
17 Jesus replied, “Blessed are you, Simon son of Jonah, for this was not revealed to you by flesh and blood, but by my Father in heaven. &times; References for Matthew 16:17
18 And I tell you that you are Peter,band on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hadescwill not overcome it. &times; References for Matthew 16:18
19 I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven; whatever you bind on earth will bedbound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will beeloosed in heaven.” &times; References for Matthew 16:19
20 Then he ordered his disciples not to tell anyone that he was the Messiah. &times; References for Matthew 16:20
21 From that time on Jesus began to explain to his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things at the hands of the elders, the chief priests and the teachers of the law, and that he must be killed and on the third day be raised to life. &times; References for Matthew 16:21
22 Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. “Never, Lord!” he said. “This shall never happen to you!”
23 Jesus turned and said to Peter, “Get behind me, Satan! You are a stumbling block to me; you do not have in mind the concerns of God, but merely human concerns.” &times; References for Matthew 16:23
24 Then Jesus said to his disciples, “Whoever wants to be my disciple must deny themselves and take up their cross and follow me. &times; References for Matthew 16:24
25 For whoever wants to save their lifefwill lose it, but whoever loses their life for me will find it. &times; References for Matthew 16:25
26 What good will it be for someone to gain the whole world, yet forfeit their soul? Or what can anyone give in exchange for their soul?
27 For the Son of Man is going to come in his Father’s glory with his angels, and then he will reward each person according to what they have done. &times; References for Matthew 16:27
28 “Truly I tell you, some who are standing here will not taste death before they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom.”
