1 At that time the disciples came to Jesus and asked, “Who, then, is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?” &times; References for Matthew 18:1
2 He called a little child to him, and placed the child among them.
3 And he said: “Truly I tell you, unless you change and become like little children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. &times; References for Matthew 18:3
4 Therefore, whoever takes the lowly position of this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. &times; References for Matthew 18:4
5 And whoever welcomes one such child in my name welcomes me. &times; References for Matthew 18:5
6 “If anyone causes one of these little ones—those who believe in me—to stumble, it would be better for them to have a large millstone hung around their neck and to be drowned in the depths of the sea. &times; References for Matthew 18:6
7 Woe to the world because of the things that cause people to stumble! Such things must come, but woe to the person through whom they come! &times; References for Matthew 18:7
8 If your hand or your foot causes you to stumble, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life maimed or crippled than to have two hands or two feet and be thrown into eternal fire. &times; References for Matthew 18:8
9 And if your eye causes you to stumble, gouge it out and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life with one eye than to have two eyes and be thrown into the fire of hell. &times; References for Matthew 18:9
10 “See that you do not despise one of these little ones. For I tell you that their angels in heaven always see the face of my Father in heaven.a &times; References for Matthew 18:10
12 “What do you think? If a man owns a hundred sheep, and one of them wanders away, will he not leave the ninety-nine on the hills and go to look for the one that wandered off?
13 And if he finds it, truly I tell you, he is happier about that one sheep than about the ninety-nine that did not wander off.
14 In the same way your Father in heaven is not willing that any of these little ones should perish.
15 “If your brother or sister bsins, cgo and point out their fault, just between the two of you. If they listen to you, you have won them over. &times; References for Matthew 18:15
16 But if they will not listen, take one or two others along, so that ‘every matter may be established by the testimony of two or three witnesses.’d &times; References for Matthew 18:16
17 If they still refuse to listen, tell it to the church; and if they refuse to listen even to the church, treat them as you would a pagan or a tax collector. &times; References for Matthew 18:17
18 “Truly I tell you, whatever you bind on earth will beebound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will befloosed in heaven. &times; References for Matthew 18:18
19 “Again, truly I tell you that if two of you on earth agree about anything they ask for, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. &times; References for Matthew 18:19
20 For where two or three gather in my name, there am I with them.” &times; References for Matthew 18:20
21 Then Peter came to Jesus and asked, “Lord, how many times shall I forgive my brother or sister who sins against me? Up to seven times?” &times; References for Matthew 18:21
22 Jesus answered, “I tell you, not seven times, but seventy-seven times.g &times; References for Matthew 18:22
23 “Therefore, the kingdom of heaven is like a king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants. &times; References for Matthew 18:23
24 As he began the settlement, a man who owed him ten thousand bags of goldhwas brought to him. &times; References for Matthew 18:24
25 Since he was not able to pay, the master ordered that he and his wife and his children and all that he had be sold to repay the debt. &times; References for Matthew 18:25
26 “At this the servant fell on his knees before him. ‘Be patient with me,’ he begged, ‘and I will pay back everything.’ &times; References for Matthew 18:26
27 The servant’s master took pity on him, canceled the debt and let him go.
28 “But when that servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred silver coins.iHe grabbed him and began to choke him. ‘Pay back what you owe me!’ he demanded. &times; References for Matthew 18:28
29 “His fellow servant fell to his knees and begged him, ‘Be patient with me, and I will pay it back.’
30 “But he refused. Instead, he went off and had the man thrown into prison until he could pay the debt.
31 When the other servants saw what had happened, they were outraged and went and told their master everything that had happened.
32 “Then the master called the servant in. ‘You wicked servant,’ he said, ‘I canceled all that debt of yours because you begged me to.
33 Shouldn’t you have had mercy on your fellow servant just as I had on you?’
34 In anger his master handed him over to the jailers to be tortured, until he should pay back all he owed.
35 “This is how my heavenly Father will treat each of you unless you forgive your brother or sister from your heart.” &times; References for Matthew 18:35
