1 Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempteda by the devil. &times; References for Matthew 4:1
2 After fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. &times; References for Matthew 4:2
3 The tempter came to him and said, “If you are the Son of God, tell these stones to become bread.” &times; References for Matthew 4:3
4 Jesus answered, “It is written: ‘Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God.’b” &times; References for Matthew 4:4
5 Then the devil took him to the holy city and had him stand on the highest point of the temple. &times; References for Matthew 4:5
6 “If you are the Son of God,” he said, “throw yourself down. For it is written: “ ‘He will command his angels concerning you, and they will lift you up in their hands, so that you will not strike your foot against a stone.’c ” &times; References for Matthew 4:6
7 Jesus answered him, “It is also written: ‘Do not put the Lord your God to the test.’d” &times; References for Matthew 4:7
8 Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their splendor.
9 “All this I will give you,” he said, “if you will bow down and worship me.”
10 Jesus said to him, “Away from me, Satan! For it is written: ‘Worship the Lord your God, and serve him only.’e” &times; References for Matthew 4:10
11 Then the devil left him, and angels came and attended him. &times; References for Matthew 4:11
12 When Jesus heard that John had been put in prison, he withdrew to Galilee. &times; References for Matthew 4:12
13 Leaving Nazareth, he went and lived in Capernaum, which was by the lake in the area of Zebulun and Naphtali— &times; References for Matthew 4:13
14 to fulfill what was said through the prophet Isaiah: &times; References for Matthew 4:14
15 “Land of Zebulun and land of Naphtali, the Way of the Sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles—
16 the people living in darkness have seen a great light; on those living in the land of the shadow of death a light has dawned.”f &times; References for Matthew 4:16
17 From that time on Jesus began to preach, “Repent, for the kingdom of heaven has come near.” &times; References for Matthew 4:17
18 As Jesus was walking beside the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon called Peter and his brother Andrew. They were casting a net into the lake, for they were fishermen. &times; References for Matthew 4:18
19 “Come, follow me,” Jesus said, “and I will send you out to fish for people.” &times; References for Matthew 4:19
20 At once they left their nets and followed him. &times; References for Matthew 4:20
21 Going on from there, he saw two other brothers, James son of Zebedee and his brother John. They were in a boat with their father Zebedee, preparing their nets. Jesus called them, &times; References for Matthew 4:21
22 and immediately they left the boat and their father and followed him. &times; References for Matthew 4:22
23 Jesus went throughout Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, proclaiming the good news of the kingdom, and healing every disease and sickness among the people. &times; References for Matthew 4:23
24 News about him spread all over Syria, and people brought to him all who were ill with various diseases, those suffering severe pain, the demon-possessed, those having seizures, and the paralyzed; and he healed them. &times; References for Matthew 4:24
25 Large crowds from Galilee, the Decapolis,g Jerusalem, Judea and the region across the Jordan followed him. &times; References for Matthew 4:25
