1 Jesus stepped into a boat, crossed over and came to his own town. &times; References for Matthew 9:1
2 Some men brought to him a paralyzed man, lying on a mat. When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the man, “Take heart, son; your sins are forgiven.” &times; References for Matthew 9:2
3 At this, some of the teachers of the law said to themselves, “This fellow is blaspheming!” &times; References for Matthew 9:3
4 Knowing their thoughts, Jesus said, “Why do you entertain evil thoughts in your hearts? &times; References for Matthew 9:4
5 Which is easier: to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Get up and walk’?
6 But I want you to know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins.” So he said to the paralyzed man, “Get up, take your mat and go home.” &times; References for Matthew 9:6
7 Then the man got up and went home.
8 When the crowd saw this, they were filled with awe; and they praised God, who had given such authority to man. &times; References for Matthew 9:8
9 As Jesus went on from there, he saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax collector’s booth. “Follow me,” he told him, and Matthew got up and followed him. &times; References for Matthew 9:9
10 While Jesus was having dinner at Matthew’s house, many tax collectors and sinners came and ate with him and his disciples.
11 When the Pharisees saw this, they asked his disciples, “Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?” &times; References for Matthew 9:11
12 On hearing this, Jesus said, “It is not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick.
13 But go and learn what this means: ‘I desire mercy, not sacrifice.’aFor I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners.” &times; References for Matthew 9:13
14 Then John’s disciples came and asked him, “How is it that we and the Pharisees fast often, but your disciples do not fast?” &times; References for Matthew 9:14
15 Jesus answered, “How can the guests of the bridegroom mourn while he is with them? The time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them; then they will fast. &times; References for Matthew 9:15
16 “No one sews a patch of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch will pull away from the garment, making the tear worse.
17 Neither do people pour new wine into old wineskins. If they do, the skins will burst; the wine will run out and the wineskins will be ruined. No, they pour new wine into new wineskins, and both are preserved.”
18 While he was saying this, a synagogue leader came and knelt before him and said, “My daughter has just died. But come and put your hand on her, and she will live.” &times; References for Matthew 9:18
19 Jesus got up and went with him, and so did his disciples.
20 Just then a woman who had been subject to bleeding for twelve years came up behind him and touched the edge of his cloak. &times; References for Matthew 9:20
21 She said to herself, “If I only touch his cloak, I will be healed.”
22 Jesus turned and saw her. “Take heart, daughter,” he said, “your faith has healed you.” And the woman was healed at that moment. &times; References for Matthew 9:22
23 When Jesus entered the synagogue leader’s house and saw the noisy crowd and people playing pipes, &times; References for Matthew 9:23
24 he said, “Go away. The girl is not dead but asleep.” But they laughed at him. &times; References for Matthew 9:24
25 After the crowd had been put outside, he went in and took the girl by the hand, and she got up. &times; References for Matthew 9:25
26 News of this spread through all that region. &times; References for Matthew 9:26
27 As Jesus went on from there, two blind men followed him, calling out, “Have mercy on us, Son of David!” &times; References for Matthew 9:27
28 When he had gone indoors, the blind men came to him, and he asked them, “Do you believe that I am able to do this?”“Yes, Lord,” they replied. &times; References for Matthew 9:28
29 Then he touched their eyes and said, “According to your faith let it be done to you”; &times; References for Matthew 9:29
30 and their sight was restored. Jesus warned them sternly, “See that no one knows about this.” &times; References for Matthew 9:30
31 But they went out and spread the news about him all over that region. &times; References for Matthew 9:31
32 While they were going out, a man who was demon-possessed and could not talk was brought to Jesus. &times; References for Matthew 9:32
33 And when the demon was driven out, the man who had been mute spoke. The crowd was amazed and said, “Nothing like this has ever been seen in Israel.” &times; References for Matthew 9:33
34 But the Pharisees said, “It is by the prince of demons that he drives out demons.” &times; References for Matthew 9:34
35 Jesus went through all the towns and villages, teaching in their synagogues, proclaiming the good news of the kingdom and healing every disease and sickness. &times; References for Matthew 9:35
36 When he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. &times; References for Matthew 9:36
37 Then he said to his disciples, “The harvest is plentiful but the workers are few. &times; References for Matthew 9:37
38 Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send out workers into his harvest field.”
