1 Now after Jesus was 1born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of 2Herod the king, magi from the east arrived in Jerusalem, saying, &times; References for Matthew 2:1
2 "Where is He who has been born 3King of the Jews? For we saw 4His star in the east and have come to worship Him." &times; References for Matthew 2:2
3 When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.
4 Gathering together all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Messiah was to be born. &times; References for Matthew 2:4
5 They said to him, "5In Bethlehem of Judea; for this is what has been written by the prophet: &times; References for Matthew 2:5
6 '6AND YOU, BETHLEHEM, LAND OF JUDAH, ARE BY NO MEANS LEAST AMONG THE LEADERS OF JUDAH; FOR OUT OF YOU SHALL COME FORTH A RULER WHO WILL 7SHEPHERD MY PEOPLE ISRAEL.' " &times; References for Matthew 2:6
7 Then Herod secretly called the magi and determined from them the exact time 8the star appeared. &times; References for Matthew 2:7
8 And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, "Go and search carefully for the Child; and when you have found Him, report to me, so that I too may come and worship Him."
9 After hearing the king, they went their way; and the star, which they had seen in the east, went on before them until it came and stood over the place where the Child was.
10 When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy.
11 After coming into the house they saw the Child with 9Mary His mother; and they fell to the ground and 10worshiped Him. Then, opening their treasures, they presented to Him gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh. &times; References for Matthew 2:11
12 And having been 11warned by God 12in a dream not to return to Herod, the magi left for their own country by another way. &times; References for Matthew 2:12
13 Now when they had gone, behold, an 13angel of the Lord 14appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, "Get up! Take the Child and His mother and flee to Egypt, and remain there until I tell you; for Herod is going to search for the Child to destroy Him." &times; References for Matthew 2:13
14 So Joseph got up and took the Child and His mother while it was still night, and left for Egypt. &times; References for Matthew 2:14
15 He remained there until the death of Herod. This was to fulfill what had been spoken by the Lord through the prophet: "15OUT OF EGYPT I CALLED 16MY SON." &times; References for Matthew 2:15
16 Then when Herod saw that he had been tricked by 17the magi, he became very enraged, and sent and 18slew all the male children who were in Bethlehem and all its vicinity, from two years old and under, according to the time which he had determined from the magi. &times; References for Matthew 2:16
17 Then what had been spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled:
18 "19A VOICE WAS HEARD IN RAMAH, WEEPING AND GREAT MOURNING, RACHEL WEEPING FOR HER CHILDREN; AND SHE REFUSED * TO BE COMFORTED, BECAUSE THEY WERE NO MORE." &times; References for Matthew 2:18
19 But when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord 20appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, and said, &times; References for Matthew 2:19
20 "Get up, take the Child and His mother, and go into the land of Israel; for those who sought the Child's life are dead."
21 So Joseph got up, took the Child and His mother, and came into the land of Israel. &times; References for Matthew 2:21
22 But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. Then after being 21warned by God in a dream, he left for the regions of Galilee, &times; References for Matthew 2:22
23 and came and lived in a city called 22Nazareth. This was to fulfill what was spoken through the prophets: "He shall be called a 23Nazarene." &times; References for Matthew 2:23
